Official Statement from Governor Archibald W. Pritchard of the Australian Penal Colony, 1916

Ah yes, these electric motor-wagons you speak of—what a frightful and unnatural contraption! The horse, God’s own design, has carried man and his burdens since time immemorial, yet here comes some madman claiming we might do without them, replaced by infernal carriages driven by bottled lightning. Nonsense, I say!

If such a thing were to exist—and I have my doubts—it could serve only the most peculiar of gentlemen, those too feeble of limb to harness a proper mare, or too impatient to appreciate a good trot to the gallows. Yet, in this godforsaken land of sunburnt thieves and dust-choked roads, where even a steam locomotive struggles to keep itself unblackened, what hope has a fragile electric motor? Do they propose we shall tether these machines to great lengths of wire, stretching from one penal outpost to the next? Or shall we install, by decree, some manner of electric refueling station in the very cells of the condemned?

Madness, sheer madness! If an inmate ever dared escape upon one of these contraptions, the batteries would surely run dry before he reached the edge of the bush, and the dingoes would finish him off before the magistrate could even draft a warrant. No, sir! This ‘electric vehicle’ business is a folly of European dreamers, not fit for the harsh reality of our colonial frontier.

Should some lunatic ever suggest that these machines shall one day replace our trusty horse-drawn wagons, I shall have them examined by the prison doctor for afflictions of the brain. And should it be proposed that the esteemed officers of the Crown should patrol the dusty streets of Sydney upon such electrical abominations, I shall know, beyond doubt, that the world has taken leave of its senses!

Mark my words, as long as I govern this penal province, we shall remain firm in our reliance upon hooves, leather, and honest toil—not the fickle whims of these modern tinkers with their ghostly silent machines.